Certification content: first draft (#49)
project-chip/matter-handbook: content/Certification/certifying_a_product/self_pre_test.md

+++
title = "Self Pre-Test"
chapter = false
weight = 7
+++

![](../imgs/self_pre_test.png)

> Before taking a product for formal certification, doing a self-pre-test is

Author: changed.

important to identify and fix certification-blocking bugs.

During formal certification, tests are run through the test harness, which
provides logs and certification materials for submission to the certification
program. In the self-pre-test phase, tests can either be run through the test
harness or locally on a desktop for faster test iteration.

## Test selection and PICS
The set of tests required to certify a device is determined from the
Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS). This conformance statement
is filled out by the manufacturer using the [PICS tool](https://picstool.csa-iot.org/)
and the set of templates for a specific release of the specification:
[PICS XML files](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/folder/2269).

Detailed information about PICS, how to fill them out, and the tools available is
available in the [PICS guide](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/testing/pics_and_pixit.html).

## Running tests
When tests are run for certification, they are run through the test harness, which is
used to assist ATLs with test selection and the collection of logs required for submissions

> to the certification program. The test harness runs on a raspberry pi, external to the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
to the certification program. The test harness runs on a Raspberry Pi, external to the
```

development computer. This is the official tool for test submission for certification.

When iterating on software development, it is often easier to run tests locally. It
is common for manufacturers to run tests locally until they are certain the tests are
passing, then move on to use the official tool.

> The certification program uses a combination of different types of testing for
> certification. Tests can either be automated in YAML or python.
> 
> Tests that are automated in YAMl are located in the [YAML SDK folder](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification).
> 
> Tests that are implemented in python are located in the [Python SDK folder](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/python_testing).

Reviewer: ```suggestion
The certification program uses a combination of different types of testing for
certification. Tests can be automated in YAML or python.

Tests that are automated in YAMl are located in the
[YAML SDK folder](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/app/tests/suites/certification).

Tests that are implemented in Python are located in the
[Python SDK folder](https://github.com/project-chip/connectedhomeip/tree/master/src/python_testing).
```

Some tests are not automated for various reasons, and consist of a set of manual

> steps that the tester need to perform and check. These test are run from the

Reviewer: ```suggestion
steps that the tester needs to perform and check. These tests are run from the
```

verification steps document, which can be found in the official release
documentation for each specification revision.

> [Matter releases](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/folder/2269)

Reviewer: Can you integrate this link into the text above?

Author: moved up.

## Running Tests Locally
Information about running tests locally can be found in the SDK documentation:
- [YAML](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/testing/yaml.html#running-yaml-tests)
- [Python](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/testing/python.html#running-tests)

## Running tests on the test harness
A full description of how to build the test harness and run tests is available in the

> test harness user guide. Each specification release has a version of the test harness
> user guide for the specific specification revision. The user guide for each release

Reviewer: ```suggestion
test harness user guide. Each specification release contains a version of the test harness
user guide specific to that release. The user guide for each release
```

is available in the [Matter release folder](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/folder/2269).

## Fixing bugs

> Documentation around common problems when running tests can be found in the matter test
> scripts issue repo,
> - [Common Test Issues](https://github.com/project-chip/matter-test-scripts/tree/main/docs/common_test_failures)

Reviewer: ```suggestion
Documentation around common problems when running tests can be found in the
[`matter-test-scripts` repository](https://github.com/project-chip/matter-test-scripts/tree/main/docs/common_test_failures).
```

The CSA has a dedicated Slack channel for test harness questions at (#csg-matter-test-harness-help).

> Questions about tests for specific clusters can also be directed to the supporting tiger team.

Reviewer: Is there a specific name for the Tiger Team?

Author: no, they all have individual names.

Reviewer: Okay, maybe just capitalize Tiger Team then?

Author: done.

> In the case where a test case bug is identified, it is necessary to file a request with

Reviewer: Necessary, or "must file"?

Author: I'm going to go with "should file" if that's ok. I mean, there's nothing FORCING you to file a CCB.

weight = 7
+++

![](../imgs/self_pre_test.png)

Before taking a product for formal certification, doing a self-pre-test is
important to identify and fix certification-blocking bugs.

During formal certification, tests are run through the test harness, which
provides logs and certification materials for submission to the certification
program. In the self-pre-test phase, tests can either be run through the test
harness or locally on a desktop for faster test iteration.

## Test selection and PICS
The set of tests required to certify a device is determined from the
Protocol Implementation Conformance Statement (PICS). This conformance statement
is filled out by the manufacturer using the [PICS tool](https://picstool.csa-iot.org/)
and the set of templates for a specific release of the specification:
[PICS XML files](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/folder/2269).

Detailed information about PICS, how to fill them out, and the tools available is
available in the [PICS guide](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/testing/pics_and_pixit.html).

## Running tests
When tests are run for certification, they are run through the test harness, which is

> used to assist ATLs with test selection and the logs collection required for submissions

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
used to assist ATLs with test selection and the collection of logs required for submissions
```

to the certification program. The test harness runs on a raspberry pi, external to the
development computer. This is the official tool for test submission for certification.

When iterating on software development, it is often easier to run tests locally. It
is common for manufacturers to run tests locally until they are certain the tests are
passing, then move on to use the official tool.

The certification program uses a combination of different types of testing for
certification.

YAML-based tests are common for clusters. These tests are run using an external
runner to parse and run the YAML code through chip-tool.

> Python-based tests use the python controller directly from the chip python library.

Reviewer 2: Is this distinction important for this guide?  If so, why?  As a writer of a new test, why would I choose YAML over python?

Author: Yup - not that important. Removed. 

The which to pick discussion is covered in the SDK testing guide, but that's also probably shouldn't be part of this guide.

Changed this to omit this information, and also added links to where to find the tests because that seems important if you're planning to run them.

Some tests are not automated for various reasons, and consist of a set of manual
steps that the tester need to perform and check. These test are run from the
verification steps document, which can be found in the official release
documentation for each specification revision.

[Matter releases](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/folder/2269)

## Running Tests Locally
Information about running tests locally can be found in the SDK documentation:
- [YAML](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/testing/yaml.html#running-yaml-tests)
- [Python](https://project-chip.github.io/connectedhomeip-doc/testing/python.html#running-tests)

## Running tests on the test harness

> A full description of how to build a test harness adn run tests is available in the

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
A full description of how to build the test harness and run tests is available in the
```

test harness user guide. Each specification release has a version of the test harness
user guide for the specific specification revision. The user guide for each release
is available in the [Matter release folder](https://groups.csa-iot.org/wg/members-all/document/folder/2269).

## Fixing bugs
Documentation around common problems when running tests can be found in the matter test
scripts issue repo,
- [Common Test Issues](https://github.com/project-chip/matter-test-scripts/tree/main/docs/common_test_failures)

> The CSA slack has a dedicated channel for test harness questions at (#csg-matter-test-harness-help).

Reviewer 2: ```suggestion
The CSA has a dedicated Slack channel for test harness questions at (#csg-matter-test-harness-help).
```
